everybody welcome to another episode of
after impact I am your host Tom bill you
and I'm here with none other than Agent
Smith mr. bill you what is up dude you
ready for God yeah I know you're ready
for go I am more than ready been waiting
for this for weeks I have I'm excited
about this one
yeah you are so uh welcome to Facebook
live everyone to the podcast YouTube
this is after impact the show where Tom
and I go deep into the episode of impact
Theory that launched this week and this
week was David Goggin so you probably
don't know but he's about to blow your
mind
very simply he's arguably the most he's
the toughest man in the world period eh
yeah gonzo yep he's a Navy SEAL and a
he's an endurance athlete he's done all
kinds of races that are just insane if
you watch the episode he'll talk about
those talk about training for those
we're not training is the case maybe
more just jumping into that and seeing
if he can 100 mile race Irv I've
literally survived it's that serious
what's most impressive impressive though
about him is his mind his mindset is
determination and that is what I'm
really going to dive into so we can kick
it off there why are you so excited
about David gagas dude Goggins really
shows the limits of the human mind and I
think a lot of people stop for sure
myself included a lot of people stop shy
of what they're actually capable of
doing and he shows that the boundary
isn't like a little farther than you
think it's like really far really far
from where you think it is and the man
ran a hundred mile race around the track
so a mile track like imagine just
running that for 24 hours to reach a
hundred miles in 24 hours which was what
he had to do to qualify for another
soul-destroying race he was like 250
pounds and he had four days notice for
the race so basically you know
preparation totally unprepared and just
ran it it is one of the most amazing
stories you've got to watch the episode
and hear directly from him but it is
unbelievable so this guy reminds me of
what I'm capable of and that for that I
will be eternally grateful for him and
even just during the
Pratt man I was getting [__] excited
like that kind of stuff amps me up to
think that there's a lot more in my tank
than I think and that I can push bass in
he obviously inspired fast which we are
day three of the fast right now so mad
love to my other fasters in the room uh
and in gaja suits got me through if you
are not fasting that's just not how i
like to express myself discipline fair
enough
how do you like to express yourself well
I do dry an you arey that's okay and we
talked about I've done triathlons the
last two years legit was just something
I wanted to see if I can do nice that's
yeah more stuff like that hey a
triathlon is fully legit yeah I like
that anyway yeah tell us about the fast
how's it going talk to people about why
you're doing it go a little bit deeper
into that yeah
so I'm doing a three-day fast or several
people here and in fact I'm sure some of
you in the community right now are
fasting with us we didn't take our blood
levels before this that's right we'll
take it shortly here after and I'm doing
it really for two reasons
one is just to get summer ready so it's
a part of our summer ready hashtag
summer ready i T yep so that's our
summer prep and then the other
I just want to suffer and so Goggins
really brought it home and I knew I
wanted to do the fast leading into
getting ready for summer and when I
started prepping for Goggins I was like
oh we have to do it around the release
of this episode if for nobody else
didn't mean by the way so that I will be
just totally submerged in his mindset
during the hardest part which I expected
to be sort of night 2 which is usually
the hardest and so waking up yesterday
morning at the end of night 2 and
getting to watch his episode which I
think I watched with everybody else out
there like the second it dropped on
iTunes stitcher goes to rate and review
and it was awesome
it was like exactly what I needed so
staying focused on the positive nature
of the suffering that you're doing it to
suffer and both times the last two times
that I've
I really wanted advil because I've had a
headache and the first time I didn't do
it because I was afraid of her calories
in it and the second time I had looked
to find out there are no calories in
that bill you'd be happy to know but I
just couldn't bring myself to take it I
was like this is part of the point is to
suffer and I'm not exist I'm much much
better I know how to do keto now which
made the transition like I came straight
off of Christmas the last time I did it
fast so I'd been eating nothing but
sugar it was amazing and fun but then
transitioning into a fast is brutal
because your brain is just screaming for
glucose yeah so I did it a little more
intelligently this time is much more
manageable yeah it's interesting you
talked about how watching episode is
keeping you motivated through this fast
and Goggins touches on motivation a
little bit and I know visualization is
key to him but really he says that
motivation is going to come and go and
it's about Drive right I got to have the
drugs yeah tell me about that how do you
love that yeah how do you cultivate the
drive wow you just like pulled a
switcheroo right at the last second
making this nearly impossible impossible
to answer how do you cultivate drive
part number one is identity I want to be
a certain somebody so badly that I'm I
just have to live and I have to act in
accordance with that belief like that's
just critical for me and I spend a lot
of time cultivating my identity that's
huge for me and then the other is I say
things out loud which helps a lot so I
tell people having to do this fast I did
that whole rant where I was like do you
really think that I would come out here
say all the things that I'm saying and
then buckle for any reason during the
fast right knowing that I'm essentially
putting a gun to my head and that for me
to back out for any reason would just be
absolutely [__] insane like oh I
would never tolerate that in myself I
hope you guys wouldn't tolerate that for
me community certainly would not
tolerate that like no and that's why I
do it that's why I say stuff out loud
that's why I want people to know what
I'm doing what I'm up to so that I can
be held accountable and having a group
of people that hold you accountable is
really important and then you have to
have a future that is so compelling to
you that you're willing to push and
drive and suffer to get there and that's
one thing that I think that people miss
a lot is that notion of really
cultivating a compelling future a vision
of yourself that is so exciting for you
that you're willing to suffer and do all
that and I just know there's a truth
about human nature which is the people
that really accomplish are the ones that
keep going they are willing to suffer
they're willing to drive past boredom
they're willing to face inadequacies
fears all of that like they just keep
going and so that is being that person
is so compelling I'm so interesting what
we're trying to build here is so
important to me for sure and I believe
important to the world so it's like okay
if I know to accomplish that thing which
I'm really [__] excited about I've
got to become a different person because
you know me my fundamental belief is
you've already gone as far as your
current skills that is going to take you
so you've got to push past it you've got
to get better you've got to get tougher
and unless you actively do things to
suffer you you're just not going to get
tougher so all of that wrap together
that is Drive you want something so
badly you're just going to keep going
until you get it
yeah and David Goggin talks about how
you really have to take the time do the
deep introspection to look at yourself
and figure out what it is that you want
and what do you want to be wish and he
has a great story behind that I mean his
backstory which we haven't even talked
about yet she's seen the episode is he
didn't start out with he had no special
talent he even had like a heart
arrhythmia or something but he had a
hole in his heart the size of a poker
chip
that's serious a poker chip yep he ran
135 mile races with a hole in his heart
the size of the poker chip that's
madness and growing up he was overweight
he was subject to all kinds of bullying
and racism at his school and he said he
one day just had to decide that this is
not what I want to be but you talk about
this in the episode but I'd love to kind
of reiterate this is instead of going
away from the adversity he just went
toward more
so he was already suffering right this
is a lot of people external things are
happening to you and you're suffering
this is something we actually talked
about yesterday in our game show
motivation or garbage right there's a
difference between choosing to suffer
and then things actually happening to
you they're beyond your control but I
think what he did is he chose to suffer
right and that that empowered him
because through that process he could
learn to grow and he learned to get
mentally tough to deal with anything
because then the world's going to throw
things at you that are outside of your
control so how do you overcome them how
do you get put through them yeah I mean
that that's me is the most fascinating
part about a story is what he calls the
accountability mirror and he started
shaving his head I think he said when he
was 13 15 16 so he was like I'm staring
at myself in the mirror every day every
day every day and I did not like what I
saw and he realized what he had to do
was toughen up and dude that is my
advice for a lot of people out there you
have to toughen up and you you just have
to expect more from yourself men like
you really do you have to hold yourself
to a higher standard
like and Goggins was willing to look in
the mirror and say I'm not enough and I
need to toughen up and he said I
considered myself the softest man that
God had ever created but he knew he
could become the hardest man God had
ever created if he was willing to put in
the work and so he looked at the world
and found something that he believed was
the toughest thing you could do as a
person which was to join the Navy SEALs
and to go through hell week and all of
that he had to do it three times because
he kept getting medically bounced back
he completed it twice almost completed
it the third time which I guess was
technically the second time and so that
that's just like absolute madness in my
opinion to be able to do what is
considered like the hardest training
ever and do it three times and the third
time that he did it they said if you get
medically bounced again we're not going
to let you go back through it and so he
ended up having to tape hitchens because
he had stress fractures he started with
stress fractures in the shins and a
hernia and he had to make it through and
there's no rest for like six months
so it's not even just leading up to hell
week my wife is crawling into frame
please tell me we see her somewhere this
is amazing Wow is it really that quiet
well I apologize hi baby
so that is just utterly utterly
astonishing to me somebody that can do
that that's willing to say I don't like
what I see I want to become something
better I'm going to force myself to
toughen up that's what's so great about
his story man he was not born
genetically gifted he wasn't raised in
like some perfect environment that
taught him really had to be tough he got
tired of hating who he saw in the mirror
yeah and that's something you know my
8020 rule men that is something that
people just don't allow themselves
they're always trying to give themselves
breaks are always trying to cut
themselves slack and at some point
without destroying yourself you have to
be able to say I mean I refuse to accept
Who I am I'm going to become something a
better version of myself more empowered
more powerful and if I have to suffer to
get there then I'll suffer to get there
and he just did whatever it took god I
love this guy the ELSA did it I think
because he realized that life is going
to be hard already had life his life had
been hard for him and the only way
instead of hiding from it the only way
to get through it was to just toughen up
he said the best thing that ever
happened to him was he went for help and
help did not come right so you know it
the the racism had gotten so bad at his
school that's fine he just could not
people were threatening him and painting
his car and his binders and everything
he just couldn't take anymore he goes to
the principal and the principal doesn't
help and he said at that moment he
realized you know I've looked to my dad
I've looked to my mom I've looked to the
schools no one's coming to rescue me
yeah so if I'm going to get rescued I'm
going to have to rescue myself and this
is I said in the episode this is that
thing about kids that really scares me
like you want to give them this
beautiful amazing life but in protecting
them from things you make them soft and
I don't know if this is true in fact if
somebody out there knows man I somehow
got it into my head as a kid that there
were these kids where I grew up that I
think they were on a reservation so they
were Native American
and they had broken the law and the
tribe said don't send them to juvenile
hall or whatever let us do what what is
happening let us do what we would
traditionally do which is take them out
into the wilderness and make them
surprise for like a year on their own
and I want that to be true so badly but
I've tried looking it up to see like I
just imagined that so I'm not sure but
that's because they were like 14 or 15
and if my memories right they dropped
them off in Alaska and literally just
like in the wilderness figure it out and
if you make it back awesome and if you
don't well then so be it
that's amazing pretty gnarly that's yeah
that's badass though like I and I know
about myself I couldn't do that to a kid
but I think it's amazing so what do you
do is that not entirely sure alright
let's let's go to our Facebook live
audience we have some questions here
this one's from Michael Foster I'm you
and have oh yeah you have a version of
Goggins his alter ego that propels you
to achieve things that are painful if we
talked about this before have we I think
when we did after impact with Terrell
Owens we taught another person who
constructed an alter ego that's right he
created T oh yeah that was really cool
yeah yeah aunt I need one do you want
one do you think that's you think that's
important you know it's just some people
over maybe like it clearly works for the
people that have done it I just don't it
if that feels necessary for you do it
like people clearly gotten amazing
things out of doing it Goggins not the
least of which I've never gone there
like I've always thought of it just a
little bit differently which is I'm
actually trying to change myself and I'm
trying to be able to tap into that
toughness and that was really my thing
and that business helped me with that
I was not tough like as a kid at all and
so learning to toughen up learning to
get harder like that was a big deal for
me and but I never thought to build an
alter ego alright so yeah that wasn't my
way of handling it but obviously seems
to have worked really well for the to
the
mentioned definitely here's a question
from Jumaane he says Goggin said that
self talk was one of the things that got
him to do what he does do you think the
80/20 rule for the darkness is critical
in self-talk and how would you utilize
the darkness in self-talk 100 percent
amazing questions you money so I do
think that the darkness plays an
absolutely critical role and there are
times where the beautiful things in your
life will get you there and it's all you
need I think 80% of the time that's
where you can live but 20% of the time
you really have to tap into and let's so
I've talked endlessly about like the
people that want you to fail but now
let's talk about self hatred because
Goggins showed how powerful that can be
but it's self hatred from the
perspective of believing you can change
anything about yourself but your level
of dissatisfaction has to hit a
crescendo it has to the point we are
just not going to [__] take anymore
like you're not okay with where you are
you're not okay with what you're capable
of you're not okay with how you feel
inside you not okay with what you see
like it's not okay anymore and I feel
like in society we've taught people not
to do that and that is to their
detriment now once you let that become
corrosive and self-destructive and you
either forget that you can change
anything or don't believe it then
looking at how you're not good enough
like if you aren't thinking I'm not good
enough yet you're in trouble if you just
think permanently and forever I'm not
good enough it will be a corrosive
technique it will totally ruin you
you've got a fixed mindset address that
first but once you have a growth mindset
and you're willing to say I'm not good
enough yet I'm just simple as I'm not
good enough yet and now I'm going to do
whatever it takes to improve myself
because I'm not willing to live a life
where I was shy of expressing my
potential and that's why I open every
[__] episode of inside quest and I
even I'm afraid that I'll just say the
words and people won't feel them but the
that every show opens with you were here
my friend which is a [__] reference
to the matrix for those who don't know
that you were here my friend because
like me you know the human potential is
nearly limitless but having potential
and actually doing something with it or
not the same most people have all this
amazing
Leyton potential they can do insanely
cool stuff but they break and if I can
just without naming names several people
reached out to me in the DM and we're
like I started the fast but how do I see
this room and how do you see how do you
see it through you don't stop like there
is no magic you don't allow yourself to
stop because you make that demand of
yourself because you like there's no one
to hide from like for instance I'm
taking my blood because I want to see
like what's happening and I want to make
sure that my ketones are producing and I
want people to know like I'm not in the
[__] backroom like eating a ding dong
and you can know that for two reasons
one it's in my blood there's nowhere to
hide with that and then two what would
it matter if I trick other people I'll
know like every time I look in the
mirror all no and that's part of the
reason I didn't do the Advil
because it's like I know like some
little voice in me was like you'd have
to asterisk the fast like maybe you can
still count it but there's the [__]
asterisk I just no two ways about it and
that like having something in you that
you believe that you want for yourself
like that is critical and that's how you
see the bathroom yes it sucks like who
got into this thinking that it's not
going to suck like it's going to suck
the whole point is to find out who you
are the whole point is to go wow this
really sucks and do I want to be this
person badly enough that I'm willing to
push through and if you don't at least
on it but don't try to hide from it
don't sketch out don't be confused like
you didn't you didn't man up simple as
yeah Tom mentioned in sidequest back
every what he meant was just just today
in Keaton the audience thank you he is
on the third day of this fast
fair enough but I I don't make excuses
amazing I [__] up I'll have to put
money into the cookie jar which brings
us to the cookie jar yeah talk about
that it's a pretty cool concept so
Goggins notion is he's done all this
amazing stuff in his life and all of
those are deposits in the cookie jar so
at a moment like when he's done sad
than the miles and has now broken both
of his feet has shin splints urinated
blood and defecated on himself because
he couldn't walk the 20 feet to the
Porta Potty because he was and up yeah
he was so spayed yeah
lightheaded and yeah and like any one of
those things stops everybody else and
Goggins realized that he to accomplish
his goal because he had to finish he had
to finish a hundred miles in 24 hours so
he'd been running around this track and
he was going to run out of time if he
didn't get going so finally realized
okay i need to address one issue at a
time need to eat I need to blah blah
blah finally gets back up he's walking
and then realizes his wife at the time
tells him at your current pace you're
not going to finish on time so he's got
to now run the remaining 19 miles on
broken feet and shin splints and now is
a lot anyway it's for almost a whole
nother marathon so to do almost a whole
nother marathon on broken feet shin
splints with feces on you yep staining
urine and blood down your leg I mean
it's just like nuts and so at that
moment he starts pulling items out of
the cookie jar
and some of the items were you finished
hell week twice you finished all the
Navy SEAL stuff you were willing to kick
down doors when there were people on the
other side with you know that wanted you
dead and had the weapons to make that a
reality you who I think the exact way
said it was who else would have gotten
back up after you know breaking their
feet and all that you would who would
start running to make sure they finished
you would like nobody else would do this
you were the baddest mofo on the planet
like period and those were all his items
in the cookie jar so that he could
remember who he is and I love that
statement to remember who you are so I
think people forget yeah like you have
to remember and just recognize that
that's the human mind right from you can
go from feeling like King stud to
feeling like a total loser in like 30
seconds it is so surreal
and then once you realize that that is
the matrix that's what I'm talking about
that moment where you can swing so
dramatically from one to the other
that's the matrix and once you realize
you get to pick are you the baddest
[__] around or are you weak it's
a choice and so for him the cookie jar
is a way of remembering to make the
right choice I love that and I think for
people who are ambitious who are always
trying to improve we're looking at their
inadequacies and saying how do I get
better it can be easy to forget where
you've come from and what you've
accomplished to get that far so what do
you recommend for people to mentally
build that cookie jar I mean write it
down if you have to like literally keep
a list like these are going to be my 15
20 go-to moments where I really showed
up and if you only have one or two then
write those one or two and say like I'm
going to keep doing things to add to my
cookie jar and it gives you away it's
like gamifying your internal dialogue it
gives you a way to say like this fast
for me is another thing in the cookie
jar right the having a headache during
it fast like that's a cookie in the
cookie jar like doing all the things to
push through doing a double episode with
the flu
that's a [__] cookie jar moment right
so it's like eight you've got to show up
and play in those moments because those
in the moment so you're going to be
proud of like those are the moments that
that give you a deposit in the cookie
jar
so doing the hard things do the hard
things like that suffer do the hard
things that's where you're in
credibility with yourself going to the
gym right getting you know when you
stopped before you absolutely had to and
when you really [__] pushed you're
never going to be proud no matter what I
tell you not going to be proud of the
moment sorry stop too soon but you'll
really be proud of the times that like I
remember one time having to just sit in
my car because I had done leg so hard
that I was like and there's just weird
delay with legs where it was like 20
minutes later and I was like if I get up
I may vomit or just straight fall over
so I literally just had to sit there and
I was like wow this really sucks
but now I'm proud of this one because I
obviously pushed it that hard yeah I'll
go back to the darkness so you talked
about
having a bit of self-hatred to look
naked ly at the things you're not good
at and then to work on them but for dick
Goggins the darkness is also external
it's something that he projects on other
people right like I'm going to take your
soul so talk a little bit about that and
and do you use that yourself it's is
that the rage part of your beauty and
rage equation
I do use it but not the way he does I
find that it manifests itself at the
times of like oddly my deepest
compassion so I'll be looking at
somebody like the people that wrote in
and said God confession time so the
people that wrote in and said like I
can't do it I was like I get it man I
really get it like when you hit that
wall of suffering and you haven't built
the mental framework that you need to
want to be somebody badly enough to push
through that and all that I get it man
I have legitimate empathy for people in
that situation but at the same time I'm
like my hand I'm elbow-deep in the
cookie jar and those moments going you
just can't keep up you just can't keep
up and when I'm the first in the office
and I'm the last to leave and I'm up at
2:00 in the morning and I [__] hit
the gym and you know people are texting
me like oh man I thought I was badass
getting up at 4:00 in the morning and
there you are up at 2:00 in the morning
it's I'm like yeah like dope bless you
don't try to keep up like you just you
don't have the anger and beauty in your
mind the way that I do you're not going
to be able to push through and so in
those it really is this weird day where
I have nothing but empathy for them in
those I'm not trying to eat their souls
the way the Goggins is it's and I love
that and they're I'm sure I will use
that now but I would reserve that for
people who want bad things for me it
just would never trigger for me with
people that I care about or even people
that I just am neutral don't know
whatever that might be fault response is
always empathy in those moments but if
you want from my demise
[__] I'm coming for your soul I
like it all right a couple shoutouts
from Facebook LeAnn's mead from Capetown
what's up Liane Capetown our boy Joe
cross in Miami
this week all right yeah I'm gonna say
he's normally you know I don't think so
we're just joker remember I met him here
so now he's sort of engrained in my mind
as a LA boy but and he's a windy VNL Oh
from Venice Italy Wow
always Venice is the most interesting
city I didn't it's amazing yeah I didn't
make it up I didn't make it out but
you'll go back yeah I think I will
amazing town we have a question from Joe
cross as well Goggin says the key to
changing your life is to look internal
for so many people looking inside
yourself doesn't do it what do you think
is next is necessary to actually
overcome inertia and maintain momentum
for deep change I think that people that
look inwards and don't find what they
need are lying to themselves or I'll
even just assume they're completely fine
and content great like if you're fine
and content with where you are in life I
have nothing for you like I can only
hope to look like a madman I'm the guy
you come to when you want dramatic
change like when you really want to do
something and that to me is looking
inward and seeing all the things that
are deficient and creating a compelling
future for yourself and seeing amazing
things that you could bring to the world
and something beautiful that you could
build and that like a compelling future
like you need to be moving away from not
wanting to be a lesser version of
yourself holding yourself to an
incredibly high standard get around
better people they'll hold you to a
higher standard and then create a
compelling future for yourself something
that you really believe in that you're
really excited about that is so critical
like you can't just move away from
things and you can't just move towards
things but I think that 80% of your
energy should be about the beautiful
thing that you're trying to build so
step one is looking inward 100% like
there is nothing else otherwise somebody
is handing you something and saying go
build this but if that's not like in you
that's not the thing you want that's not
the thing that's going to get you
excited that's going to from a
neurochemical standpoint
put you in the right frame of mind to
push and go and by the way like I don't
pass moral judgments on that I don't
think that most people should try to
live the life that I'm trying to live I
think that most people should everybody
should look inward and see like what do
I want like a lot of people just want a
life devoid of stress and my life is
anything but devoid of stress like I
leveraged stress to keep me going to
keep me moving to keep me hungry looking
over my shoulder making sure that I'm
paranoid and going is hard in the
forward direction is seemingly possible
so if you want a monkish life if you
want just peace and tranquility that is
a very doable life but it is a very
different type of introspection so what
does someone do because Goggin says that
you know you guys are in lockstep with
this look look inward find out and he
really says find out who you are at your
core that's step one what do people do
if they're doing a lot of deep work
self-reflection and they still don't
know who they are I thought you were
going to ask something else I'm going to
answer to something else because it's
easier okay if you look inwards and
don't like what you see which is I think
where most people end up is there even
such a thing as not knowing who you are
I don't think there is maybe in the
sense of not knowing what you want of
life that's very different that's like
how do you take an interest and turn it
into a passion which we'll talk about
but maybe not during God yeah so if you
look inward and you don't like what you
see then it's about massive action it's
about what do I need to do to become
that person like there is an answer and
it's the thing that you don't want to
say it's the thing that's at the edge of
your consciousness that you trying not
to allow yourself to say and say that
thing and go do whatever you need to do
to get good add that thing like it and
it is like interest everybody knows what
they're interested in but they've got
some off switch where they they've
passed the judgment on it where it's
like well I can't go do that right like
I could never make money doing that I
can never make a living doing that
never tell my parents I do that and so
they they and it's not like they
recognize oh this is that thing Tom is
talking about it seems so patently
obvious to them that they could never do
that they can never tell the world that
they do that that they just they brush
it off and it's like stumbling over gold
so they're there and they're sort of
mental construct and the answer is
ubiquitous it's the thing that they love
doing it's the thing that makes them the
most happy and just a lot of times that
thing on its surface seem stupid and so
they don't push and therein lies the
tragedy when people think they're
letting other people's view of what they
like and they're interested in stop them
from pursuing that thing now not
everything turns into a multi-million
dollar business but it doesn't
necessarily need to like figure out like
if that makes you feel alive like let's
take quilting if quilting makes you feel
artistic and creative and you love doing
it and hours go by and you don't even
notice like finally like even if it's
making forty five thousand dollars a
year doing it move to a small town where
the cost of living is crazy low and find
a way to quilt in one of the you know
the tiny houses in an inexpensive town
and if that's the thing that makes you
come alive then there you go
I don't wait they're like good day or
the day after I don't think I sent it to
you which is really dumb I had mentioned
those people that took their kids out on
a boat and for years do you remember
talking about that house I talking to
you tonight so maybe I was talking to
dr. finesse it was during lives and
anyway that may or the next day I read a
story on I think reddit about a kid
who's like hey I grew up on a boat and I
know oh just the I bring that up because
even they're like craziest stuff like
that can be done with kids and this kid
was like I wouldn't trade it for
anything
so like you can construct your life in
such a way where you're able to bring
your most exhilarating life to the
forefront I love it here's a question
from YouTube from
head Fathead I head telling how do you
climb out of the trap of not hold on
what can we talk about fat head first
hanger I don't know if I had you know I
don't know fat head but we are I'm
guessing unless it's a reference to
something cool and powerful that I don't
know about very subtly he's injecting a
negative into his perpetual world and
that is [__] dangerous so and I would
just say and if somehow fat head is
empowering for him the rest of the world
goes Fathead
like it's not a positive so you got to
be real careful with [__] like that like
this is how people very subtly erode
themselves it to be really really
careful
maybe powerhead he can change his name
to power head that would be amazing I
know that how her head hasn't I show you
in the comments power head that's what
yeah or his question is Tom his or her
question Tom how do you climb out of the
trap of not feeling like you're worthy
of massive success I come from an upper
middle-class family my parents make good
money and we never struggle to pay bills
however I want more I want to push for
bigger things to change the world but
feel like I don't deserve it
Wow well here's the good news this is
all belief system so do and believe that
was from as you forward start with that
ok so make the demand of yourself that
you do and believe only that which moves
you towards your goals so believing that
you don't deserve it does not move you
towards your goals so now that you have
the belief that you only do and believe
that which moves you towards your goals
you can immediately get rid of that so
even though it feels more real than what
you're going to tell yourself which is
that you do deserve it I get it the
negative thing feels real the positive
thing does not feel real you still have
to jettison it anything that does not
move you toward your goal so your goal
is to do something better to become
something more you have to start with
that belief that will do a lot of things
and then man be protective of who you
are like allowing other people to call
you fat head calling yourself that had
Danger Danger Danger Will Robinson and
now that I know that he or she does not
believe that they're worthy I promise
you fat head is a negative it's
derogatory and they just subtly let that
into their lives you this is like an
awesome and thank you by the way so I
know there's a lot of vulnerability in
this
there's just blocking and tackling of
the belief system that you have to do
and that's why the twenty five bullet
points start living them human potential
is nearly limitless only do and believe
that which moves you towards your goals
like they're just basic infrastructure
for your mind that you have to put in
place it's a belief system that will
allow you to empower yourself to go out
and acquire skills at the end of the day
that's what the belief system is about
to believe that you can that you should
that you're worthy all of that and then
to actually know how to go out and do it
how do you remove negative self-talk
from your life you don't never try to
remove the negative self-talk negative
self-talk is incredibly powerful but pay
attention to the balance so negative
self-talk usually is pointing out
something that's real so help me
understand the difference between
calling yourself Fathead and negative
self-talk because your balance is
eternally [__] if your name is Fathead
it's just ever present so having
negativity be ever-present and literally
it's his name can we say that would be
part of your identity yeah so part of
his identity is or her is this self
defeating
I'm the Fathead I'm not good enough I
don't deserve it so your your balance is
never going to be 80/20 in that world
his name should be like why do I wear
Batman Ironman like all these the
superhero stuff Star Wars Jedi's like
because I want to be surrounded by that
I want Bruce Wayne staring back in me
when I look in the mirror I want Yoda
throwing quotes out at me like all the
time all the time all the time so I'm
constantly surrounding myself with that
stuff the positive reminders so negative
self-talk is usually pointing out
something that's real hey you're lazy
that's one that I get a lot I'm like yes
I am lazy so I need to have rules hey
since I'm lazy I should probably have a
rule about how rapidly I get out of bed
okay so that's where my ten-minute rule
came from I know that I'm lazy and I'm
very good at coming up with excuses so I
should probably work out first thing in
the morning because I hate it so much
Hey I really am lazy so I should
probably do from my 8:00 to 10:00
important things time I should probably
start with the things that suck the most
Dyess impacts almost always doing
contracts at that time so those are like
protected mechanisms because I allow I
don't go no you're not lazy it's all
good like love yourself for who you are
I'm like no [__]
you really are lazy and you really do
need to combat this and don't tolerate
the expression of your laziness
so like cognitive I really am a dumb
[__] cool what do I need to do
to get educated right he didn't wallow
in that he didn't say oh I could never
become anything he just said acknowledge
the truth you are dumb and so what do
you have to do right now today to start
educating yourself that's where people
have wins because they're just not
afraid to be real so I don't think
people should get rid of the negative
voicing a negative voice is there to
serve you but you have to relegate it to
20% and when it crops up at 21% you shut
the [__] door on it symbolize and use
it as a trigger to action conjure
presented all the way there life always
always always well said great
alright here's a question from Cameron
RN how often do you use the dark side
for motivation compared to letting go of
a dark past
Wow we're dabbling with something very
dramatic in there so a dark past almost
always means physical emotional or
sexual abuse never be afraid to seek
help like if you need to talk with
somebody about that like do that in a
heartbeat never be ashamed about that
that is just super super super important
and also like got a dark past man
whatever you need to do to get over that
to get past that it's just super super
important you need to start building an
empowering mindset you need to allow
yourself to believe that you're good
enough to get better right so I'm not
afraid even for somebody with the dark
path I'm not afraid to say like you
probably haven't accomplished as the
level that you want or should or should
be holding yourself to that standard but
you have to believe that you can get
better and you have to believe that
you're worthy of getting better you
should have written Goggins is in the
feed so our boy Goggins is in the feed
amazing thanks for letting me know
man I really hope he's been here
but dude Goggins you are the man you've
totally just blown me away in ways that
I've been explaining for the last 40
minutes I won't say I could never
explain but so back to it if you have a
dark past that is something you need to
address you need to get past that
especially if you plan to have kids like
you've just got to find something you've
got to find the beauty inside of you
check out the West Chapman episode which
that's somebody that's really overcome a
super dark past and for him to be able
to find Beauty again which i think was
my first question him is the thing I'm
most fascinated by with people that have
had a dark past is you've got to find
Beauty again you've got to find a way to
let all of that neuro chemistry of
beauty and wonderment and joy and all of
that come back in you're going to have
to aggressively do that because you're
going to have hardwired through that
experience or experiences you're going
to have hardwired a lot of just rapid
negativity and so the chances to be
spending way more than 20% of your time
there is is super dangerous so that's a
dark past allowing the darkness to be
usable that's a whole nother ball of wax
so the easiest way for me to talk about
darkness is when somebody wants ill for
you and Goggins gave an awesome example
of this when he was talking about how he
was there during hell week during the
whole training and he knew that the
instructors who were trying to break him
down and find the flaws in his
personality we're going to go home and
be in a comfy bed he said he wanted them
to see him suffer and be so comfortable
with being uncomfortable and smiling the
whole time that when they were at home
in their comfy bed thinking about how
hard they struggled during their time
and how badly they wanted to quit that
he's not thinking like that that he's
not going to ring that bell that he's
way more comfortable being uncomfortable
than you ever were and in that he said
he takes people sold that is a that's an
amazing way to use the darkness
definitely one of the one of the
different quotes
from the episode which I love is we're
writing our book every day of our lives
but we don't read that book and it's
just so good I love the idea that a it's
about self reflection so you need to be
recognizing what you're doing and be
it's about intentionality because we do
have control we do have choices that
we're making but a lot of times it's on
autopilot and we're not being aware
we're not being intentional member of
decisions so read the book that we're
writing and then write it with
intentionality love that quote so much
love that and I have to say in the
episode I had this moment of like oh god
what Scoggins going to say and when he
said self-talk was a huge part of his
success I was like thank God because
I've met other Navy SEALs and their
responses like you just do it like
there's no sense they don't understand
how they got there and that's what makes
Goggins so powerful is he's gone on the
journey he was not born tough he was
born weak he was physically and mentally
he went through everything to try to
break him down emotionally and he didn't
look at that and blame the rest of the
world
he turned inward and got a hold of his
self-talk and really turned it into
something incredibly powerful and that
to me that is like the story that needs
to be told that's the journey that
people need to be on it's just super
super critical yeah that's awesome
here's a question from Facebook live
Shikhar Dhawan
what's up Shekar Tom what do you think
of the idea that there are limits to the
amount of deep work or deliberate
practice in a day I know you don't
believe in that but while I have
examples of people who have achieved
amazing physical feats like Goggins I
don't see many talking about mental
stuff what's your experience on this um
it's not that I don't believe it is
there a limit to the deep work that you
can do probably but like anything it's
so much farther away than where people
actually stop that don't even worry
about that don't think like you'll
transition into something no matter what
like just do as much as you can possibly
bear first of all you'll see that it
goes farther every day and that you get
better at it and like anything even
discipline focus like those things can
be improved over time so if when you
start you can only do deep work for like
25 minutes great but then
next day you better demand yourself to
do 26 and then 30 and then 40 like just
keep pushing it out pushing it out
pushing it out and it's like the
four-minute mile if you read an article
and somebody says all the most deep work
that you can do is about an hour and a
half like you that's all the human mind
is capable of like then there's Roger
Sir Roger Bannister who when told that
the heart would explode if you ran
faster than a four-minute mile said get
out of here like that's ridiculous and
just pictured 359 359 359 and then
finally broke in and once he broke it
then something like 20 people break it
in like the next year I mean it's
ridiculous right so people just need to
see that it's possible so is there a
limit probably is it way farther than
you think yes so yeah don't don't tap
out because other people wrote in an
article that that's the limit cool David
says that being the best isn't about
being number one it's about asking
yourself that I leave every did I do
everything I could and give everything I
had what do you think about that um yeah
I mean that it's true but don't you also
want to be number one
and I think that stuff is so transient
like you might be one minute and you
won't be the next but so if you can do
it playfully like to really go after it
like friends I really really like Gary
Vaynerchuk as a human being I think if
content is [__] amazing
but I'm gunning for him like make no
mistake like I want to be number one I
think right now he's number one I think
he's amazing and but I'm coming for him
but like in a way where when I see him
it's warm embraces it you know he's a
great guy and he'll be the first to say
the same like he wants to hold the
number one position like there's no way
that he wants somebody to take a spot
but if that's like this place of
ugliness and bitterness like that's not
sustainable but if you can have fun with
it and be playful and really actually
try to be number one and then when
you're not number one it's like yeah
like if you left it all on the table and
you're not number one so be it like no
big deal but if I were a professional
athlete I would want to be the best in
the world like period so I don't see
anything wrong with actually literally
wanting to be the best but at the same
time that spot can only be held by one
person at a time so if that's
destructive and corrosive to not be that
then
got a problem because statistically
speaking got like what a one on a seven
billion chance right so you better be
real comfortable being in other
positions and leaving it all on the
table all right there we go
just a reminder we're on Facebook live
we're wrapping up in a few minutes so
get your questions and now about the
david Goggins episode you haven't
watched it watch or listen to it this is
one you you need to you need to see i'm
just we're just going to make it
mandatory yes like if you're an
impactive Asst this needs to be and by
the way you should be following Goggins
osha lee so in fact we should probably
be pressuring Goggins to be way more
socially active just because I think
this message is so transformative for
people and people really really really
need to hear it so agreed here's the
question from Sarah a brothy she says
Tom what's what's an important truth or
what important truths do very few people
agree with you on um I think that people
don't agree i around myself with people
that think in a very positive and
empowering way so most of the people
around me agree but i would say that a
lot of the world totally disagrees with
human potential is nearly limitless
[Music]
what's one that's really controversial
the the whole self hatred thing that's
the most controversial belief that i
have that that is powerful and can be
leveraged i think most people think that
it's just dangerous and that's why with
great empathy I realize I will forever
eat their lunch because I'm willing to
be real with myself yeah I think another
one to which you got into a little bit
of a debate over yesterday with one Mel
Robbins yeah was about whether or not
you as an individual are special and
unique yeah and your answer was not at
all like statistically speaking you're
all average and life is about pushing
past that life is about like the drives
mean that when somebody is saying like
I'm special I'm unique it's because
you're afraid to write now today
not be special and once you're afraid to
not right now today be special then
you're not honestly assessing where you
really are so that you can actually
become special but you can get good but
for me it's like the the version of
myself that's special and amazing is
always in the distance and I'm always
chasing that I'm always going after a
paradoxical did my dog jailbreak and if
so how because it requires opening doors
my dogs can not open doors that's very
impressive dr. a running loose they were
inspired by Goggins it's like they can't
be held back now so yeah I don't think
people should worry about being special
I think people should worry about
becoming a special like they should be
putting in the work to really get that
mean if that's gave the word becoming
its process that never ends for sure no
question it's very paradoxical so I feel
like we might have to circle back to
this or have you write an article
oh not writing an article and we talked
about I don't write articles anymore
like that is the world's longest process
we already everyone here is very
comfortable with the fact that I am
using a ghostwriter now to write the
book because I can speak all this stuff
very rapidly the moment you needed to be
written down it is such a slow process I
just I can't justify it for the business
because well what we do we have that guy
that wrote if he can write emails like
this guy right in the impact Theory
universe so well dude can we give him a
shout out what's the name diem remember
Gerald's sure I think it is Gerald I
don't know his less than okay but that's
good well remembered we're going to
connect we tweeted back at you that was
amazing
by the way this guy just to get an
internship wrote five emails that he
thinks we should be sending just like
that was he'd never have contact with us
war really incredible very impressive it
was a good angle for sure very good
angle
especially because jared is ultimately
the one you have to impress and so
emails is like the perfect way to do it
on emails very smart his question from
William Mendoza Tom what is one weakness
that has turned out to be a strength for
you man I could give you some BS none
zero all of my weaknesses or weaknesses
for a reason and they don't serve me and
systematically I'm trying to get rid of
them all there we go
there it is love it no weaknesses those
are all the questions we have and that I
have anything else I want to talk about
Goggins I just think people need to dive
in this world I think they will benefit
tremendously from doing the hard inner
reflection looking at where you are
honestly and then forcing yourself to
suffer understanding in the suffering
you will meet yourself in the suffering
you will be able to empower yourself
begin to get better but if you avoid
suffering like the plague you're never
going to progress and it is literally
about creating suffering in your life
and if you don't have something already
might I suggest the gym so the gym has
longevity angle it has looking better
feeling better getting stronger being
more powerful and every day it's going
to be something that is woefully
uncomfortable and so in doing that
you're going to be able to sharpen your
mind and your body it is just an awesome
awesome utility player in the game of
suffering so get to it nobody has an
excuse even if literally you can't
afford a gym membership do sit-ups do
push-ups run in place
go run outside like there are a thousand
ways to get in shape without having to
go to a gym and then also if you really
want to suffer start messing with your
food that's where most people just can't
do it they can't fast yeah
thanks everyone for joining us on
Facebook live on the podcast YouTube you
can always submit your questions in
advance to connect it impact theory
come if you're not able to join us on
Facebook live I want to encourage you to
go sign up for our newsletter which
we're going to be investing more time
and energy into over the next couple of
months exciting things there discounts
promos for the store we're going to be
releasing things on the store so that is
where you're going to hear about it
first and you'll be part of the inner
circle so go sign up yes and if you are
an impact sub as we call them if you've
signed up for the newsletter let me know
when you're commenting socially because
we consider that the absolute inner
sanctum of this community so let me know
hashtag impact sub and then you know who
you're writing to every week yes very
true yeah awesome cool well thank you
guys so much for joining us for this
episode and David Goggin to you my
friend I tip my hat you are officially
my favorite episode this was amazing I'm
very glad that I got a chance to meet
you and I have not forgotten about what
we talked about downstairs we will be
making that a reality in the very near
future my friend it is an obsession of
mine so we will get it done alright if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary
take care